all right so here we are we're in Portal
2 VR and you can see that we can look
around and in virtual reality
and just using kind of a natural head
movement and now what we've added is
your own personal habit our hair so now
we're Chell inside of portal 2 and I
have hands and a portal gun that I can
manipulate with six degrees of freedom
so I can navigate using traditional
controls using the joystick over here I
can also turn my body and I will turn my
forward direction as well so with the
extra range of motion that you have with
adding motion controls here and now I
can just kind of look over my shoulder
fire portals without really thinking
about what I'm going to do I'm not
thinking about input so much anymore as
I am just kind of naturally doing what
feels intuitive so here I am this is a
feature that we've added to portal 2 we
call this one-to-one where I am
manipulating this cube with the
orientation of the controller which
affects the object's orientation I mean
the position of the controller which
affects of that position so that we've
built a bunch of puzzles around just
this mechanical loan a simple one is
just reaching across a gap and dropping
it onto a button so you can get across
this bridge another fun thing to do
inside the virtual reality is it's just
I mean just a simple act of falling I
mean you really feel like you're in here
in this world and so when you're falling
you get this in same sensations as you
are really falling so again since we
don't have any line-of-sight
requirements it's really a fantastic
experience in terms of light calibration
I could again I can turn all the way
around and nothing is going to interfere
with the input of the controller at all
we can kind of do some little things
like this
and then we're going to be adding more
interactions where you can just reach
out press buttons kind of intuitive you
can imagine a other games where you
would maybe be that's a light switch you
just need to open each over and flip on
a light we're typically you might get a
button problems okay press B to turn on
the light but now you can just reach out
and kind of do what's intuitive and just
flip switch so again with this type of
precision you can reach out and really
direct a way to write it exactly where
you want it so this is a you know a
typical item in the portal T universe
this lens root cube but you're you're
bound to its axes are pretty much like
this you know you can turn your body and
name the delays ur so now you get full
six degrees of freedom pretty neat one
thing I guess needs since I can I have
this range I can just let go of this
object mid mid swing and actually I can
throw the object
and then another feature we added to
portal is a concept of what we call
portal surfing and basically in portal
if you fire a portal there and it's in
the wrong spot from the wrong
orientation you have to refire you just
kind of get it in the right spot so like
here if it's at an angle might be the
wrong angle so you do that well now you
can just reach out and grab it you can
rotate it all right so the reason we
call it portal surfing it's because we
can actually get in here and feel like
you're kind of surfing around
all right we have a couple other
features too that we're not showing here
one we have it's a scaling feature we
can reach out and you can grab a cube
and you can change its size and then
you're delayed how so you could
basically mentally have a button here
and a button here you could put the cube
on both so again this is just super
immersive and when you look down and see
yourself in the world it's it's very
compelling and now that you've had all
this movement you just you know it's
just gonna get better and better at this
point okay so that's about my whole oh
yeah right so um we're showing two
controllers here one for each hand but
we also added a third tracker for your
head now the reason we added this is
because now we have position tracking on
the head so if I kind of use this frame
of reference here you can see that now
if I lean right I'm giving some head
movements and I can crouch alright so
just kind of naturally you things in
game as you would in real life and
they're get translated right into the
virtual world